# Installing Anaconda
Go to https://www.anaconda.com/products/distribution and download the Linux installer or run the following snippet with the updated date

```sh
curl -fLso conda-installer.sh "https://repo.anaconda.com/archive/Anaconda3-2022.05-Linux-x86_64.sh"
```

After the download is complete, run the installer

```sh
chmod +x conda-installer.sh
./conda-installer.sh
```

To activate the conda environment we need to source a shell script. This varies depending on the shell you're using. In FISH, it is:

```sh
eval "$(~/anaconda3/bin/conda shell.fish hook)"
```

After that you should see  `(base)` to the right side of your prompt. You're in a _conda_ environment! This means you can use the `conda` command.

## Starting a virtual environment
Run `conda create` to create a virtual environment. Then use `conda activate` to use it.

```sh
conda create -n my_project
conda activate my_project
```

This will create an environment at `~/anaconda3/envs/my_project`. But what exactly is this environment? It's an isolated 'space' where all your projects dependencies are installed. Use `conda deactivate` to exit an virtual environment.

Say you have an old project that uses Python 2. When you create a new one, you'll be using Python 3. But if you update the system's Python, somethings might break! By using virtual environments, each project is safely isolated from each other.

## Cheat sheet
- Create a new env: `conda create -n my_env`
- Activate env: `conda activate my_env`
- Deactivate env: `conda deactivate`
- Show created env: `conda env list`
- Clone env: `conda create -clone my_env -n my_copy`
- Remove env: `conda remove -n my_env --all`

## Final notes
To use programs that ship with anaconda, such as Jupyter Lab, add the bin folder to your PATH environment variable:

```sh
# ~/.config/config.fish
set -a PATH $HOME/anaconda3/bin
```
