# First Class Function

Python, as well as many modern languages, allow passing functions as arguments to other functions. This is the backbone of algorithms like reduce, map and filter; as well as the main reason `lambda` is a thing.

Let's go over some functions and classes that make use of this[^1]:

- `map`: applies a function to every element of an iterable.
- `reduce`: accumulates/collects a value while traversing an iterable.
- `filter`: accepts a boolean function and filters elements based on it.

## Examples

```python
from functools import reduce

def reverse(s: str) -> str:
    return s[::-1]

names = ["Tainah", "Julia", "Kaique", "Rafael"]
twins = list(map(reverse, names))

def reducer(a: str, b: str) -> str:
    return a + s[0]

animals = ["cow", "owl", "ant", "lion", "armadillo"]
mutant = reduce(reducer, animals, "")

def is_armstrong(n: int) -> bool:
    return n == sum(int(x) ** 3 for x in str(n))

armstrong_numbers = list(filter(is_armstrong, range(100, 1000)))

print(twins)
print(mutant)
print(armstrong_numbers)
```

## Anonymous Functions

Having to define a function for each an every operation like this is quite tiring. Luckily, `lambda` is a thing. It's an inline function definition much like arrow functions in JavaScript.

Rewriting the previous code would look like this:

```python
twins = list(map(lambda s: s[::-1], names))

mutant = reduce(lambda a, b: a + b[0], animals, "")

armstrong_numbers = list(filter(lambda n: n == sum(int(x) ** 3 for x in str(n)), range(100, 1000)))
```

Notice, though that the armstrong_numbers' expression is now very long and can be quite hard to read. The function you're defining also may be an equation or a well-regarded algorithm. In these cases, it may be better to define a separate function.

---

[^1] The result of these functions sometimes can't be fully visualized or don't have support for subscripting - IE, you can't access a specific index. So you'll often convert the result to a `list` or decide whether it's better to use a comprehension.
